I made a million mistakes. Like I think
nine out of 10 decisions if I look back
now I'm like that was the wrong choice.
>> I'm just wondering if you could clear
the error on that.
>> That's the thing about YouTube. You're
trying to do something that's never
really been done before. You're set up
to make mistakes.
>> Everyone was saying you're going to be
the next Mr. Beast.
>> Talk about pressure. You know what I
mean? It was like encouraged to
incinerate money and I was not afraid to
do it.
>> Did you feel like you leaned into that
too much?
>> That was like $150,000 down the drain.
>> I was actually shocked you shared this.
>> I don't want to play the spectacle game,
dude. I want to play my own game.
>> You may have made the greatest comeback
in YouTube history. Are there things
that you're doing now that any YouTuber
can learn from?
>> I can get very granular here. I don't
know how granular.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Let's go. Wait, where's my
phone? I actually have a thumbnail
mockup. It's sick.
>> You like that one?
>> Should I make that video? Content will
ooze out of this idea naturally.
Previous Eric is gambling every single
week, but the version of me that gets
the channel to 100 million in a way that
I'm proud of is a very different version
of Eric. What happened with you and Mac?
>> What are you trying to do to me, man?
[Music]
>> Real quick, this is actually one of two
videos that we filmed with Ara. Next up,
we have a breakdown of one of Ara's
biggest videos. So, stay tuned. And if
you haven't already, go to ytackpack.com
to get our best templates, tools, and
tips to grow on YouTube, all for free.
From our thumbnail templates to our
intro templates to our viral ideas for
any niche, we constantly update it as we
do more interviews so you get the latest
and greatest for free.
>> Make sure you're subscribed. Make sure
you hit the notification bell. Come on,
help my boy John out here
>> because when we get to 1 million
subscribers, I mean, we talked about
before. I'm going to unbox him.
>> We did not talk about that.
>> We talked about that.
>> I That's in a video now. It's official.
>> All right, just go watch it.
>> Eric, thanks for coming on the show,
man. I'm so excited to have you here.
>> Mr. Ushai, it is my pleasure to be here.
You know, dude, I was looking back at
our first ever interview. I think it was
2022. My uh wife was still cutting my
hair after co
>> Yeah.
>> And a lot has changed since then.
>> Dude, was it your first interview?
>> I think it was our my third interview,
>> dude. It's so crazy.
>> The looking back on it's nuts.
>> Yeah.
>> We've been at it for a minute now. We're
kind of becoming OG's.
>> Yes.
>> It's happening.
>> It's happening, man. I mean, you've been
doing so much uh since then. And I think
you have one of the most unique stories
on on YouTube. like the way you've gone
about your journey, your career. And I I
wanted to play a quote from Jimmy, from
Mr. Beast about you
>> that I thought was really interesting
during your early days and just get your
reaction to it because I thought this
was a big statement from him.
>> Like I think Eric shares that same like
just almost dumb, right? Like you have
enough money where you just don't have
to work anymore, but you keep going
because you love.
>> You could tell he got it Eric from the
beginning though, too. Yeah. And you
just tell he's tell the title, the
thumbnail, like then you watch the
video, it's like, okay, this guy's a
YouTuber. He gets it.
>> And he's a psychopath. Like he's the
kind of guy that would walk across
America or do crazy [__] like that. So I
think I think he's the next person to
get 100 million subscribers.
>> Oh yeah. Talk about pressure. You know
what I mean?
>> Yeah. I mean, so that was Jimmy on the
Neelk podcast. Like, and at that time,
you had about 10 million subscribers.
Uh-huh.
>> Um, and for Jimmy to say you were the
next to get 100 million subscribers, I
mean, that's a big deal. Like, how were
you feeling at that time? Did you see
him say that? Like, take take me like in
your shoes during that moment cuz I
think a lot changed after that.
>> Yeah. I remember one of my boys showing
me that clip at the time and I mean, we
thought it was awesome. We were like,
"Hell yeah, we're big shots." You know
what I mean? Yeah. It's funny looking
back on it because
I think when you don't it's like the
deeper you get into something the more
you realize you don't know
>> and at that time I was like 36 months
into YouTube
>> and things were going amazing like with
no with no breaks and you just assume
that you don't need to change or adjust
anything and that's just going to like
go into forever. But I think the reality
is the version of me that got to 10
million subscri the version of you that
gets to 100 million or 100,000
subscribers, the version of you that
gets to a million subscribers, the
version of you that gets to 10, the
version of you that gets to 100 are
completely different people. And you see
channels stall out at all of these
benchmarks because it's hard. It's so
hard to to change and readjust and
learn. You have to have a open mindset.
And I think yeah, you hit 10 million. I
always call it the Sahara Desert. It's
like the there's so many people that
you've seen hit 10 million subscribers
and then 10 to 100, bro. You can count
the amount of people doing it on one
hand. It's like just a wide expanse of
the unknown.
>> I mean, for kind it was two years ago,
so a lot has like happened since
>> which is crazy. But yeah, a ton has
happened in two years. Um, and at that
time like you had this huge year to get
to the 1 million subscriber mark and it
seems like in a blink of an eye now you
were at 10 million subscriber mark. I
I'm wondering were you making a lot of
decisions that looking back on it you
would have done differently cuz I don't
know about you but I'm feeling as we
grow like my default state feels like
drowning.
>> Yeah.
>> Like I I I don't feel like it's like oh
I'm swimming towards the deep end. I
just feel like I was put in the deep end
and I have to figure out 10 things at
once. And um and I think there's very
few people to understand that and you
did that like
>> to a crazy extent. Like
>> did you feel like you were drowning in
that moment,
>> dude? Oh yeah. Speaking of mistakes,
yeah. No, I made a million mistakes.
Like I think nine out of 10 decisions if
I look back now, I'm like that was the
wrong choice.
>> Like repetitively. If you think
principally how I was thinking was clips
like that go viral and then it becomes
my brain's job to get me to 10 million
subscribers or a million subscribers or
whatever the next milestone is. Not how
do I build a sustainable YouTube
channel. Those are two completely
separate goals fundamentally two
separate goals. You know what I mean?
You have to take
>> short-term sacrifices for long-term
gain. And like that's not what I was
building at all. I'm building. How fast
can I get to the goal? By any means
necessary.
>> Yeah.
>> And
so, yeah, you look back and you're like,
I mean, if I really thought about my
actual goal here, which is grow this
channel over time, I'm passionate about
YouTube. I want to be here. I would have
made very different decisions. But
that's the thing about YouTube. There's
no playbook.
>> And there's so few people trying to do
it at the level I'm trying to do it at.
>> There's only a handful of people you can
ask, and they might not even have the
right answer, you know?
One of those decisions
you actually um posted about uh in a
video on your second channel also.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Um I was actually shocked you shared
this. Um so I want you to place cuz
context here. This is a behind the
scenes of your most popular video to
date.
>> Okay.
>> 48 million views on this walking on
water prank. And you talk about how much
it cost and how much you made from it.
>> Yes. Okay.
>> How much this cost? Like how much does
it cost?
>> Uh I spent $100,000.
on this [__] I actually avoid looking
at this number because I know how much
money I spent on this video. I made uh I
made $166,000 on this video.
>> Dude, it's crazy how everyone thinks
that like YouTubers are like
bajillionaires, but like you this is
like your most successful feat on
YouTube and we just lost money.
>> That's awesome. Yeah. No, that's uh it's
a true story. That's what and yeah,
that's a whole separate thing, but I I
got I at the time of making that video,
I was in a mindset where it's like the
videos have to be perfect. They have to
be bigger than my last one. Uh and money
is no object because
everyone I talk about is a professional.
Everyone I'm talking to on the phone is
a professional money incinerator. And so
we're all just a bunch of boys who are
great at incinerating money, making
videos. And yeah, like that video, I
reran the walking on water bit. three
separate times that we never even
filmed. We We filmed the third take, but
the first two we set it all up. There's
scuba divers in the water setting up the
invisible platform. And I get there and
I'm like, the platform doesn't go far
enough out. Like, we're not going to get
the shot. And so, we do that two
separate times before we actually
>> different, different,
>> different dates. Another bit on that
video uh is where we have Mac and my
friends throwing people up against a
wall in a sushi shop and it didn't go
correctly or it wasn't set up correctly
the first two times or the machine that
we were using to do it broke and so I
reshot that bit three separate times. I
definitely spent $100,000 on that video
or more until it was perfect, you know,
which is uh it's a tough standard,
right? It's a It's honestly a a game
that you choose to play of making
perfect videos, which is
>> in my opinion a losing game. But that
that's where I was at at the time. And
uh yeah, I I you know, after a year or
so of that video, I ended up making
money on it, but definitely not at the
gates.
>> Yeah, I want to dial into like your
videos now versus your videos then
because I actually spoke to a lot of
members of your team. One member of your
team, I'm actually not going to say his
name. He's like, "We were making videos
that were poorly thought out and way too
expensive back in the day.
And there's a reference to your world's
most impossible trick trog videos as
being like
>> like like a poor man's attempt at dude
perfect at dude imperfect.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> From back in the day.
>> Actually a very fun video to film. But
yeah. No,
>> it doesn't feel like an air act video
though.
>> It does not feel like an air act video.
It's very confusing.
>> Yeah. And and and just to put some
numbers around it. So back in the day
2023 2024 your videos were averaging
around two to three million views I saw.
And it seems like from what you said
they were costing above six figures.
Yes, that's right.
>> Now, um 2025, uh going to 2026, like
your videos are getting 5 to 10 million
views on average. It seems like they
cost less. I want to like ask more about
like how you're thinking about that. Um
and they feel more on brand.
>> So, I'm wondering like are there like
tips or or or things that you're doing
now that like any YouTuber can learn
from cuz you're kind of reinventing the
wheel as YouTube goes along here. Like
how did you make this switch? like tell
tell me more about those changes that
you made in terms of the content the
team
>> bro I can get I can get very granular
here I don't know how granular
>> yeah no let's go deep
>> if you put effort at different parts of
a YouTube channel different things
happen which is so interesting
>> uh and I think if you just hire uh
like a crazy person and just you just
somebody says we need to we need four
more producers and you're like I want to
get to 10 million subscribers I don't
care what you do just get the videos
done you end up with four producers, you
know what I mean? Or
>> just four bodies, but you're not vetting
their like talent or competence.
>> Yeah. Do you do you actually But but
this is real cost when it comes to a
YouTube channel. This is real cost that
you now can't spend somewhere else.
>> So, I think for me it was like when we
broke the whole thing down, it was like
measuring a YouTube channel by uh
multipliers like
>> how powerful is every dollar spent
towards this? How powerful is every
dollar spent towards this? and like
tearing this the channel and like is
this actually necessary?
>> Because I don't want to play the
spectacle game, dude. There's a guy with
a bunch of money in North Carolina that
will beat me every time with the
spectacle game. Like I want to play my
own game. Like I just want to play my
own game. If we're going to restart this
whole thing, right? Like this is where
my head's at. I am gonna sign up for the
games that I want to play and if it
works, great. If not,
I'll go become a real estate agent or
something. I don't know, but I'm not
going to sign up to like be forced to
make videos that I'm not even that
passionate about again. And so we took
that and then we broke it down on like
where do we get the most outcome for
every unit of effort that goes into the
channel. You know, I think there's like
a few core things that we like have
written on a whiteboard that are like
rules we don't deviate from, which I
think every channel should have. Uh, I
think the first thing that's the most
important is like if you can't explain
your brand in one word, you're already
done for.
>> Like it's already over. And so I think
being able to clearly explain your brand
in a in a word. Like when somebody says,
"What type of videos do you make?"
>> You should say one thing and it
shouldn't be confusing for you to
explain your own thing in in my opinion.
And like that was a filter that we
thought through for a long time because
I don't think ever before I've been able
to explain that to somebody before. They
would ask me and I would be like uh I
would never I would I had no answer. So
for us it's the word
>> what's your Yeah. What's your one word?
Yeah.
>> The word for us is mischief.
>> And so like
>> we look at that word and it's like is
the video we're talking about right now
mischievous? Like is it uh and like
mischievous can be good, it can be bad.
Does it will people be laughing at the
end or will people be like h I just saw
like the underbelly of society? I don't
want to I don't like that.
>> Uh
>> if it can't be mischief and everybody's
not laughing at the end, it's like a
chaotic good. Um we don't make it. It
just doesn't get made. It just gets
thrown to the incinerator.
>> What's an idea that didn't pass that
filter? We had we had an idea that was
uh
it was me going on the dark web and
ordering stuff and then I got on the
dark web and I realized like I'm like oh
dark web amazing YouTube title and then
you realize what the dark web is
actually and then it's like yeah it's
mischief but is this like positive
mischief? Like is this mischief we can
make fun out of? The answer is no and so
we don't make it. Uh like there there's
adjacent things that we'll think are
great ideas and then you put them
through a filter and it just it doesn't
work.
>> Yeah. So it's almost like like playful
troublemaking
>> has to be playful. It has to be playful.
>> Interesting. That's I I know we were
talking before is like I I think about
that a lot with our videos and I feel
like our one word is like
>> actionable or tactical. Like are we
talking about something with this guest
that an aspiring YouTuber can watch and
write down and apply like take action on
and
>> you know
>> dude I can pull up Wait, where's my
phone? I I can pull up bad ideas very
easily.
>> Yeah, I would love to hear. Yeah,
because how you think about that filter?
>> Millions of bad ideas.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Tell us.
>> Good ideas.
That's the hard part. Okay. Here's here
here's an idea. Uh there's there's
different reasons that ideas are bad.
Like I told you the uh like the dark web
video is bad because it's evil.
>> It sounds awesome, but it's evil.
Another reason a video idea could be bad
is because it lacks ability to actually
be pulled off in the physical world. So,
uh, there was a whole thing, there was a
vi these viral Tik Toks about how
there's these underground tunnels in LA
with Starbuckses and this is how Will
Smith and all the biggest celebrities
get around.
Amazing idea. I actually have a
thumbnail mockup. Oh, wow. It's sick.
Problem can't actually be done in the
physical world. If that existed, they
would not let me inside of it. It's not
going to happen. So, okay, this gets
thrown into the trash.
>> Wait, it's not happening cuz you don't
know if the tunnels actually exist or
you can't get access to them.
>> That's a question for the conspiracist
out there. I don't know. I hope that
they do exist.
>> Got it. So, that one's that one's not
going through the filter of is it
mischievous or not? Is it that one's is
it possible or not? Or is it actually
real or not? Who's pitching these? Is it
the team?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Or like I'll find other smaller
YouTubers that I like their ideas and
then I'll just pay them to pitch me
ideas as well.
>> Oh, wow. Okay, here's another bad one. I
ranked the most painful insect bites.
>> Check out these thumbnails. These
thumbnails are sick. This is like a This
is like like a macro shot of your eyes
and it's like right there.
>> Close up. The bug is right there.
>> There's like all these thumbnail.
>> Wait, how? This is an amazing pitch
page. So So this is how you're getting
ideas from Is this like a template that
you say you have to pitch me in this
way?
>> That's right. Yeah, exactly.
>> And they have to give you three
thumbnail stories.
>> Yeah, they have to give me three
thumbnails. Uh, they have to give me a
breakdown of the video and they have to
give me a how. So, how does this video
actually exist in the physical world?
>> That is such a genius way to pitch an
idea. Yeah.
>> Versus like, hey, we have this idea for
a video. It can involve it. Like, you're
like,
>> show me what I'm going to see.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Like, I don't want to be
pitched unless it has like a clear, does
it fit the brand? Tell me about what's
inside the video. Yeah.
>> These questions honestly aren't even for
me. They're for them because it prompts
your own brain. You'll think of a good
idea and you'll be like, what's the
content inside? and it'll self-elimate
itself nine out of 10 times because you
can't think of the content on the inside
of the video.
>> Wow.
>> And then Yeah. So, this is an amazing
video idea for Coyote Peterson. He's the
guy who gets bit by bugs and stuff
constantly. Amazing video for him.
Terrible video for me. This is me doing
trick shots part two. I'm making a trick
What am I doing making a trick shot
video?
>> Uh, great video for Dude Perfect. But
again,
>> terrible video for me. What am I What do
we What are we doing?
>> Yeah. Uh, I tested the world's most
deadly militaries.
That's an amazing video for Austin
Alexander. His whole channel is about
military stuff. It's not a good video
idea for me. Ideas that I also have in
here that are actually pretty funny, but
I won't make them is sneaking into a zoo
as a fake animal.
>> You like that one? Should I make that
video?
>> Your disguises keep getting more
ridiculous.
>> Yeah, I think it might be the last video
I ever make. Uh, that's the other thing
about some of these. Um, sneaking into
the president's top secret bunker lacks
a how. Awesome idea if we could do it.
Amazing. It does exist. I know where it
is. Can I get there? No. Okay, we can't
make it, you know. Oh, another video I
wanted to do was
uh I I actually I tried every cult and I
basically me and my friends go to every
single cult in existence like all the
biggest ones. The problem is I have
heard that these cults have like
infinite money to
chase you down for the rest of your life
and make your life horrible. And so I'm
not doing that video. But somebody Well,
somebody should not do that video
actually. Yeah. No.
>> Are you What's the process like? You
just get these on your phone text. You
have a weekly meeting to go through
these and decide.
>> Yeah. Weekly meeting. Uh there's a we
have a weekly meeting. There's a few
people on the call. They all pitch ideas
at the same time. Most of the time the
meetings nothing comes out of them or
like really what I'm looking for is a
piece of inspiration. Like I'm not
looking for a perfect video idea. I
don't think it'll ever happen because at
the end of the day I'm the decider of
what gets posted on the channel. And I'm
looking for high quality inspiration,
like a really good seed. The way that
the whole hiding in streamer streams
video came about was I had one of my
buddies pitch me in that meeting. Uh I
lived in Mafiaon back when Mafia Kai's
Mafia 2 came up. Yeah. And I was like,
"That's a bad idea, but
>> what if I hid in the background of his
stream and then like five other streamer
streams
>> and then that becomes a bucket." So I'm
like,
>> "Yeah, I I'll I'll pay for high quality
inspiration all day."
>> One that I posted recently was $1 versus
$100 million road trip. I don't What am
I doing making that video?
>> How long ago did you make that?
>> Six months ago.
>> Six months ago. So it sounds like you're
still kind of
um
>> I think we have it locked now. it. But
it was a it was a rough road to figure
out the direction.
>> Yeah. I think having a one-word filter,
like you said, is is so powerful for any
YouTuber. I mean, for you, it's like, is
this video for Eric or for me it's like
um is this interview like like if it's
not actionable, do we spend time on it?
Or, you know, I feel like that filter
can work for so many creators. So, I I
thought just as an interesting exercise,
I took a video from you, from Ryan
Treyan, and from Jimmy, and put it
through a one-word filter. So, we use
the word spectacle or money for Jimmy.
Mhm.
>> If we use the word quirky for Ryan
>> um and if we use the word mischief like
you said for your video, the topic of
island
>> Yeah.
>> can be filtered and made so differently.
>> Based on how well defined you are on
your one word.
>> Totally 100%. uh something we'll do an
exercise a lot of times where uh we
think we'll think of a word and then
we'll do a uh shoe swapping exercise
where it's like yeah if the topic is
island what would Mr. Beast do? He would
do the least expensive to the most
expensive island.
>> If Treyan were to do an island, what
would he do?
>> Probably like world's loneliest island.
Yeah. Banger.
>> Yeah. If we do a if I do island, I snuck
onto secret billionaire private islands.
It's like it's like that's mischief. Uh
that's quirky. That's spectacle. Um and
like you can use other adjacent
YouTubers I think to build ideas like
this just given one word if Yeah. if the
brand is strong.
>> Yeah. Another example of that, the topic
of Disney. Okay. Like
>> Jimmy rents out Disney World for a
$500,000 date.
>> Yeah. of, you know, Ryan tries out all
the different hotels and rides at Disney
and uh you sneak into Disney and try
living there for seven days.
>> Yeah, I secretly live there.
>> Same topic.
>> Different one-word brand filters.
>> Yes.
>> Different end results.
>> That's right. Completely different
videos. Distinguishly distinguish
different videos for each creator given
one word.
>> Yeah. How do you think about like giving
your take on something that is already
happening on YouTube or is a popular
topic because that validated interest
still matters.
>> I think I mean literally these guys and
I will talk about identifying and
innovating off of these videos. So Jimmy
will get a hotel banger.
Ryan and I are like
what's our version of hotel? you know
what I mean? Uh Ryan will do flights.
Jimmy and I are like, "What's our
version of flights?" You know? Um and I
think that's like a cool healthy way to
deliver on a topic of interest while
making completely separate videos and
serving the audience in different ways,
which I think is so exciting because you
can build adjacent to creators. And uh I
do believe that there are so many ideas
out there that haven't been done. M um
you just have to really invest time into
it. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Identify and innovate. That that's
that's a really interesting way to put
it. And I wanted to break down this
video where um you made a video called
how long can you secretly live in a
grocery store?
>> And I'm wondering if you could talk
about the inspiration that led to it.
Like what did you identify that was
working on YouTube and how did you
innovate on that? the these are so fun
to like work through because it's like
it's so it's funny talking about it
because I I would never think that any
of this would make the light of day
ever. Uh but this is yeah this is like I
mean this is days worth of work
basically backing an idea when we're
making a new format we're gambling you
know this is this is this is previous
air act 2022 2023 is gambling every
single week I have no idea what's going
to work I'm reinventing the wheel every
single week
>> but there is a smart way to do it which
is like this so basically how long could
you secretly live in a grocery store
it's a brand new idea um it's never been
done this way for the pieces of
inspiration are a combination of things.
So, we see this like there's like this
stealth camping trend that's like
nobody's really talking about, but
there's a dude who stealth camps in
roundabouts. He stealth camps in like
sewers. He stealth camps all over the
place. He's the coolest guy. By the way,
I'm subscribed to this guy. I forget his
name at the moment, but he's awesome.
>> What is stealth camping? Just so people
>> stealth Oh, yeah. The idea of stealth
camping is that you set up a camp in a
place that you're technically not
supposed to or a place you wouldn't
normally do. like a freaking roundabout.
>> Yeah. And you're doing you're doing
hardcore survival but in a place that
you would never expect like a
roundabout. Like in the bushes in a
roundabout or uh uh under a under a in
in the sewers like under a great you
know what I mean? Like this dude's
secretly camping in public urban spaces
basically. Um it's like he's in the
middle of the woods. He's surviving like
he's in the middle of the woods but he's
in the middle of a city. Amazing. These
videos are so entertaining to watch. You
watch a guy who's amazing at what he
does does do what he does best for 20
minutes straight. So awesome. Then you
have uh food theory. They made a video
four years ago which was how long could
you secretly be locked in a grocery
store? And so they go through the theory
of this like breaking it down like how
many meals could you make out of all the
food in the grocery store if you were
stuck there for like a zombie
apocalypse. Um they're basically proving
out concept. They're not doing any
challenge, anything. They're just
talking about the idea. That video gets
21 million views by itself. Just talking
about the theory of living in a grocery
store. Jim makes a video called $10,000
every day you could survive in a grocery
store. I'm pretty sure one of his split
tests of his thumbnail on this video is
literally the MattPat thumbnail, but
Jimmy's face on it. I think because Jim
took heavy inspiration from food theory
on this.
>> Yeah.
>> We take these three data points. We say,
"Hey, what's the air act version of
this?" That ends up being, "How long
could you secretly live in a grocery
store?" And so, yeah, this is uh this is
I think that and and now, yes, we're
gambling. We don't know if the audience
is going to like it. This video has 17
million views now. I remember, you know,
we're talking about it internally, and
we didn't know what was going to happen.
Like, this could easily be a 10 out of
10. But if it's a 10 out of 10, I'm okay
with that because we took so much time
in prepping the idea.
>> If the audience doesn't like it, that's
okay. and we'll move on to the next idea
that we did the exact same thing with.
And I think that's the smart way to
approach YouTube.
>> Eric, we also analyzed your past 20 30
videos and I thought it was fascinating
how like they could fall into very clear
buckets and series. And I'm wondering
when you're thinking about the initial
idea, how much does can you turn it into
a series factor into your decision to do
it or not?
>> The one of the rules that we have is if
it doesn't have a follow-up, we're not
making it. We're not going to make a
video if it doesn't have a natural
follow-up. It's not going to happen. It
could be a video that's going to get a
100 million views. I'm not going to make
it. Making new videos every single week.
I've done it. And you have to rebuild a
from scratch and reinvent the wheel
every single week. You're purposefully
living on hard mode. And I'm I'm saying
it like that because I've done it
myself. Like this is I did this for
years. And um something when we were
sort of reinventing the channel we
looked back on was there was a few
different series that were like really
successful. Um but I never was thinking
in how do I do more of these? I was just
thinking that's awesome that there's
follow-ups. All right, go on to the next
video. Like I wasn't thinking
dependently on series. But
>> I think good ideas are marked by this.
Good ideas are marked by there's more
content in there than you can make with
one video. Um, like right now our
buckets that we're currently doing,
there's more that we haven't launched
yet, but
>> we just dropped our new apparel for
created. I'm talking about new
sweatshirts, hoodies, ball caps, and
more. And when we were putting together
our merch, we went all over the world to
find the highest quality fabrics, the
coziest material, the most vibrant
colors. And we knew that we needed the
perfect domain name to match all that.
And it came together thanks to today's
sponsor, Dosstore Domains. because we
weren't going to go with some random or
lengthy.com link that nobody could
remember. Instead, we wanted something
that said this is our store. So,
naturally, we went with created.store.
And we're not alone. From Mr.
Beast.store to speed.store to sticks.
Who we just interviewed to dude
perfect.store. After all, your name
followed by a do.tore at the end is
clean, clear, and full of yours. It's
easy to share, easy to remember, and
easy to trust. And best of all, a
website with a store domain often drives
2x higher visibility because the word
store is literally in the link, which
leads to more clicks and sales, just
like we've seen with our created apparel
line. So, if you're a creator selling
online or even just planning to or
thinking about it, then get your
branded.store link before somebody else
does by going to this link below. Just
do it and do it with the domain that
just makes sense.
Domain. So, thank you guys again for
sponsoring. And now back to the video.
>> Our buckets are like there's I secretly
lived in um there's I hid in streams or
content or YouTube videos or Tik Toks or
whatever.
>> There's uh instant karma. Uh so that's
giving thieves uh cheaters instant
karma.
>> Yeah, you scam scammers.
>> Scam scammers.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
and there's a bunch more buckets that
are rolling out that exist. But
>> why does my mind want to say you've been
god on get got?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, there's there's
some good gets coming to the channel
right now. Yeah. But yeah, like uh
pranks is another one. Like we've been
really successful on a series of pranks.
>> Um
>> and then the cool thing about these is
if they're really good ideas, they
branch into additional concepts. So like
it's like breeding horses where like
>> so we have I secretly hid in uh
Kaisenet's live stream and then we have
I secretly lived in a grocery store. Now
we cross those two together and you get
I secretly lived in Kaisen's house,
right? And now it's a mix of these two
ideas that both have proof to work. And
now instead of taking bets that are like
87% likely to work, you're taking like
99% shot that these work and you have
specific leverage to do so. You're in
you're you're positioned to do it well
because you've already been working at
these ideas. It makes your life easier.
It makes the editor's lives easier. It
makes the producers's life anybody who
touches a video gets reps. And so your
videos actually get better as you do
them over and over and over again, which
is like such a simple concept, but it
took me five years to realize it. So,
here we are.
>> Yeah. I mean, even like dialing it in,
like we were talking about the
production of like living somewhere,
like you have to like set up the
cameras, you have to think about, you
know, like getting investing in the
gear. Like for us, like when we do the
interviews, like we've now got so dialed
in because we're doing it obviously is a
much simpler format, but yeah, like
restarting from scratch like um that's
like also restarting your costs. Yeah,
it would it would be like doing an
interview one week and then doing 50
other formats of different types of
YouTube every other week of the year.
You you never get better at it. You
don't get good at it. Everyone's always
starting from zero. And so the product
is always suboptimal
>> unless you can build buckets of types of
videos and you it's cool like the second
version of the third version of video
will actually get more views than the
first version because you're a pro at
it. you you you're better than anybody
else on the internet at making a
specific type of video, which is
awesome. That's such a valuable skill
set, you know.
>> What what are some of those things you
like learned or like made it easier to
go like secretly live in a grocery store
to then secretly live in a water park to
now secretly live in a mall? Like what
what is like happening behind the scenes
that's making those videos like easier
to make or things that you're doing on
screen? Like Yeah. what what's happening
that makes it kind of
>> there's little things for every
different type of video where they have
their idiosyncrasies like for secret
living in a grocery store you're working
with security footage for the first time
and so I don't
>> you're actually pulling security footage
from their their existing cameras
>> that's right yeah so I'm like hoping to
go that these record right and then they
did but like I've never pulled security
footage before so I have to get a
technician to pull the footage this adds
a week it takes a week to get it off the
server cuz I didn't prep for it cuz I
didn't think about it and now I like
know how to do a get security cam
footage off of a thing. But if I never
did a follow-up to that, that would be
something that one of my great amazing
producers learned and then never use it
again. It's just a waste of effort. But
now, because I get to run that video
back four or five times, they have a
specific skill set. They're probably
better than any other YouTube producer
at pulling security footage. You know
what I mean? and we go into a sec, we go
into a new location, we're picking
locations based on their security
cameras. Like, because that's the actual
thing I'm optimizing for. Like when we
did mall, my first thought was, let's do
it at America Dream Mall
>> and then we find out that they have like
1,200 cameras and I'm like, it's too
much and it's too hard to pull from. But
then we talked to another mall where
their security cameras are much more
similar to ours or what we've done in
the past and I'm like, let's do that
mall because we already know how this
works and it'll make the production so
much easier. That goes into
post-production seamlessly. they already
know how to edit it, which is a whole
other thing. You know, uh the stories
get better because you build lore on top
of them.
>> The you know, I have reps at doing it.
So, I know what makes a better video. I
get to study the retention graphs and
find out what people weren't as
interested in. And I just make a more
optimized version of the last video
every time over and over and over and
over and over again, you know?
>> Dude,
>> but it all starts with the idea.
>> Yeah. And I guess Yeah. Doubling down on
it. I mean, another way I've been seeing
that is your disguises and your
costumes.
>> Yeah. Yeah. just seen in real life.
>> Oh, I've se I've seen you in the makeup
chair. Yeah. Like like getting it and
and and like like like what was that
process of like making it more
ridiculous and and even more
professional? Like these are looking
like movie level costumes that you were
putting on and you're in the makeup
chair for like seven, eight hours. Like
was that a process of like
>> developing that bucket of hiding or
secretly live living in and then kind of
helping your helping that improve your
costume design? Yeah, I think number
one, when you do makeup 30 times in
three months, high SFX makeup, you learn
who all the best SFX and body painters
in the world are. And so I have all of
them on a contacts list.
>> Um, so whenever I need to do makeup now,
we just call up whoever's closest to us
are available, and we get the world's
best makeup artist.
>> Me knowing I'm going to do a follow-up
allows me to prep. So, like now I have a
mold of my exact head that's been 3D
scanned and so they can build uh custom
disguises for me because I know I'm
going to shoot part three in two months
from now so that I have two months to
prep this and I'm not paying last minute
expedited fees for like getting stuff
done. It's not bad. It's like getting
better as I go down the series. Like the
disguises are getting better and better
and better. Um you work with people over
and over again. those you're you know
you get more chemistry with them of what
you like and what you don't like.
>> Um yeah. No, I've I've rotted in a
makeup chair for like
100 hours in the last three months.
You've seen it. Maybe more.
>> What's the most expensive costume,
>> bro?
>> To put on,
>> man. Uh
so many expensive ones. Oh, dude.
Honestly, they're less expensive than
you would think. That's another thing is
better ideas are usually not as
expensive.
Unless you're that guy that lives in
Greenville, North Carolina. And then I
actually think he probably even has
depreciating value on money at some
point. But uh maybe that rock costume I
did in my in my last hiding video.
>> Hilarious.
>> I Dude, that one was nuts. That one
>> you look like the thing from the
Fantastic Four on steroids,
>> bro. It took That costume took like a
month of prep and I think it might have
cost like
three or 4,000 for that one.
>> Oh. which like I feel kind of like dumb
for even saying that's expensive because
I used to spend that on nothing like but
that's for us now for budgets that's
like pretty expensive.
>> What what is the budget now for videos?
>> Um under $10,000
>> really.
>> Yeah. Probably we probably average out
of like 6,000.
>> Wow.
>> Yeah.
>> How did you guys
>> What do you think about what do you
think do you think when you because I've
I know this
>> Well, I'm thinking about your last video
um or one of your last videos you had a
higher like 20 air doubles. Not as
expensive as you would think in LA.
>> No, like those are extras that you just
>> Yeah. Yeah. They're like you just
backstage extras. Yeah.
>> Like a few hundred bucks a day.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Okay. Got couple hours.
>> And then the costume was another part of
it.
>> Yeah.
>> Travel. I I guess it is interesting like
your reinvention of the channel is
better ideas, cheaper production.
>> Yeah. If you Something I learned is the
more expensive an idea becomes, it's
usually a worse idea. There are
outliers, but usually you're
compensating for not brainstorming
enough by spending more money.
>> Wow.
>> Big time.
>> Any ideas that come to mind that you're
like, "That's too expensive
>> for me?" Yeah. Like right now or ones
that I made in the past
>> either.
>> Like I think about ideas like uh you
know the video where I had YouTubers
date an AI robot.
>> Yeah.
>> That video cost $65,000 and it was
filmed in my own house. How did it cost
that much money? I don't know. I don't
know. I look at some of my past budget
sheets. It's like
unbelievable. I bought every seat on an
airplane. That was an idea that I did. I
had to film that video twice. I don't
think people know that. I rented out an
airplane. Ended up being a scam. I had a
hundred people show up to a tarmac. The
plane never showed up. I had to come
back a month later, bring the 100 people
back out, buy another airplane, didn't
get my money refunded. That was like
$150,000 down the drain. Fundamentally,
I am competing at the wrong game. Like,
why? Even if that video wins, what's the
upside? I don't get to run it again.
There's no second part of this. It
doesn't build anything for the channel.
I'm just doing it for the sake of doing
it. You know, it's it's tough. Like,
this is this is a it's a tough game to
compete at.
>> Yeah.
>> And so,
>> as I get older, I get a little wiser.
>> It kind of goes against those rules that
you've outlined so far. It's not on
brand. It's not mischievous. It doesn't
have that one word definition. N
>> there's not a clear follow-up to it. You
can't turn into a series. You can't
learn into the production, the editing.
>> Now, I know how to I know how to get a
commercial airliner to charter me
anywhere I want in the world. What am I
going to do with that information?
There's no follow-up to this video. I
already got a 747 with 150 seats on it.
Like, I should have started. You could
have done it if you started like private
jet and then you did like a little bit
bigger of a plane and then you do like
the 747, but I did I I already did it. I
did the biggest version of the video.
What do you do next? You know,
>> um yeah. So the the the newer rules that
we're working by are super helpful for
topic selection.
>> Yeah. Um on the finance, it's
interesting because uh we just
co-founded a business with Zach, your
manager, Zach Carnivar, and uh my
business partner, Amanda, and my wife,
and it's called Boring Stuff, you know.
We handle all the boring stuff,
accounting, bookkeeping for kids. You're
one of our first clients.
>> Come on.
>> U which is really exciting because I
think so many people make these like
accounting and financial mistakes. Uh,
is there any other like huge expense or
like big mistake that you look back on,
you're like, "We wouldn't do that." Or
other YouTubers are making that you're
like, "They don't realize what's
coming." Something I messed up on big
time was I rented out a giant studio
space and I was like 24 when I signed on
to it or 25 and I didn't realize that
commercial leases are like 5 years long
like baseline. And uh I rented out a
studio space as studio spaces went down
down down down down and in and like
depreciated in value. Like nobody's ever
not wanted studio space more than
they've not wanted it in Los Angeles
than right now. And so I have the studio
space that I'm like trying to rent out
and like nobody wants it. But you dude,
taking on big fixed costs as a YouTuber
is like the dumbest thing you can
possibly do. Every dollar counts and you
can the being agile as a YouTuber is the
biggest
>> advantage you can possibly have is being
able to quickly turn the boat and change
directions. But when you start putting
down fixed costs on things, you really
limit your optionality on what's the
next direction. You get locked into a
certain direction. It's a
>> it's a huge thing. I've had to like
fundamentally restructure the whole
channel based on a couple different
decisions I made like that.
>> Yeah.
>> Bor stuff is awesome though. Shout out
Veroon.
>> Shout out right. Yeah. Yeah. Veron
Zakami. We're so excited about that. And
uh uh Yeah. I think you're absolutely
right. Uh uh YouTube is a speedboat, not
a cruise ship.
>> That's right. Yeah. And YouTube can be
one thing today. It can be something
completely different in a month from
now. And you need to be able to adapt to
that. So as much liquidity, as much
ability you have to change directions.
You have to build the channel around
that because that's just what YouTube
is.
>> Yeah. What what else? What what other
rules of of YouTube do you have now or
do you feel like other aspiring
YouTubers can learn from?
>> I hear a lot of people talking about
like Aplots and Bplots. I think it's
completely overrated. I think if you
require a Bplot, your Aplot sucks. And
so it's all about the Aplot. I I used to
get really like in my head about Aplots,
Bplots, Cplots, like bringing stuff in.
And then in the edit, it just becomes so
confusing. I think I watch people mess
it up on most videos is they probably
listen to me two years ago on a podcast
talking about a plots and bplots and now
they're doing it and their videos just
get so messy.
>> Give me an example just what for folks
who may not understand what what is an
Aplot in the video? What is a Bplot?
Maybe past example.
>> An Aplot in the video would be for
example uh if I'm secretly living in a
grocery store. The Aplot is me secretly
living in that grocery store. And is my
action that I'm taking right now related
to me secretly living in a grocery
store? A Bplot would be like, I love
mangoes and I'm going to see how many
mangoes I can eat while I'm here. And
all of a sudden, this mango storyline
becomes a giant distraction. And every
time I talk about mangoes,
I'm like not delivering on the video
that the viewer clicked on. And I'm
doing some random other side quest
because I thought it was important for
some reason. If I just focus on secretly
living in a grocery store, content will
ooze out of this idea naturally. And
like, yeah, we can set up a couple bits
here and there, but the further you get
away from the aplot, the more confusing
a video gets, the harder it gets to film
as the creator because you now you have
all these things to remember as you're
doing it, and it's not fun anymore.
>> And it becomes 40 times harder to edit
because you're like, "No, there was this
whole storyline about mangoes. Like,
trust me, it's good." good and they're
like, "Dude, it doesn't make any sense."
And then you get in an argument with
your editor and then the video comes out
and it's like half about the grocery
store and half about mangoes. Now the
video sucks.
>> I get Yeah. A plot equals the title on
YouTube.
>> A plot equals the title. Yeah. Bplot
would be a separate story you're trying
to tell outside of a side quest.
>> Yeah. But it is interesting that grocery
store video like you had hope uh and you
go on a date. Was that not a Bplot or
was that adding I I found that one of
the best parts of the video. How do you
think about those little moments?
>> I think it's a fun bit,
>> but it's not a Bplot. Like,
>> it's a bit fun,
>> but us doing a date is directly
correlated to me secretly living in a
grocery store. Like, I'm going to live
here. Like,
>> I'm going to bring my girlfriend here.
Like, this is like, and now there's
security in the building at the same
time, right? Like,
>> this is
>> sneaking in like her through the back
door to have the date.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. But it's awesome for the aplot of
the video. Like this,
>> it's in line with what I sold on the
title thumbnail. It's not a complete
distraction. Yeah.
>> Like me trying to run a marathon inside
of the grocery store
>> would have been a distraction. It was a
real idea that I thought of and I was
like, "This is going to be such an
undertaking and such a distraction from
the video. I'm going to rob the content
that would naturally be in this video
because I'm going to be so focused on
the goal of running a marathon in the
grocery store. This is stupid." Man, it
is so funny hearing you say this because
I feel like these are things that people
believed
>> were good on YouTube just a few years
ago.
>> Yeah.
>> Stack your plots,
>> cut fast, you know? It's like,
>> yeah,
>> just so many things have changed uh in
terms of
>> Yeah. We used to think that YouTube
videos needed to be eight minutes and
now YouTube rewards hourong videos,
right? Like this is what I'm saying. The
platform is so agile and you have to
optimize your operation and your channel
to be agile because it can change so
fast.
>> What about your intros? Like I feel like
those have changed a lot. I actually
pulled up a few of them here and I'm
curious like if you could break down
like yeah what what's going on in this
one.
>> Oh yeah, this is a good one. Over the
past three months, I've tracked down
four real life scammers.
And today, using some ingenious methods,
I'm going to be giving them a little
taste of their own medicine.
>> Take the money.
>> What the going on?
>> I just feel it. I feel it.
>> You are about to meet God.
>> Yeah. Um, you know, I got in a heated
discussion like six months ago with
another YouTuber and they basically
said, "Every month we talk about intros
and thumbnails and every month we come
to the realization that they're more
important than we thought they were last
month and we've been doing that for a
year." And I was like, "That's really
interesting. Tell me about that." And
it's just you've heard it a million
times, but if you really think about it,
like
dude,
YouTube has done what we asked. They've
g given us so much mobility with YouTube
editor, with AB split testing, with
title split testing. There's no there's
a reason that those are there. And if
you're not taking them seriously, you're
handicapping yourself. Because I always
think about life as it's like there's a
thousand parallel universes you're
living in and they're all half a percent
different.
>> And you have an opportunity with YouTube
to live in pretty close to the most
optimal reality because we can split
test into infinity. We can split we can
work on our intros over and over and
over. We can run them by a million
people. You can use YouTube better to
cut stuff out if you want to. Yeah, like
the first 30 seconds of a video and like
I'm telling you really smart people,
really smart YouTube people are meeting
in a room every month and the only
conclusion they come to is that the
title and the intro are more important
than they thought they were last month
over and over and over and over again.
So, I've tried to keep the intros a lot
tighter than I used to.
>> Uh, I try to really work on making them
res representative of the content. I
think that's so important. And for both
title and thumbnail, I think it's like,
does this feel like an ARAC video?
Again, if I'm going to do a thumbnail,
it needs to feel representative of
brand. Crazy thing is about like working
with brands and on YouTube and building
a reputation on YouTube is people don't
really watch your videos. Like they take
your channel at face value. So like is
this thumbnail representative of the
brand? It's like
>> this is important stuff to think about.
>> Yeah. Specifically on intros, it is a
video becomes exponentially less
important every second that goes by in a
video. Exponentially. So it's like the
first one second of the video is the
most important second of the entire
video. It is the most important second
of the entire video. And sometimes I've
had this habit of thinking about it not
very hard and I get so focused on the
bits and making sure the content is
good. By minute three or four of a
video, if a viewer's already decided to
watch, they're probably going to stay to
the end. So
it's like from minute from second number
one to like second like two minutes in I
think is the most important part of a
video and then from there you've either
earned or not earned the viewer. Yeah.
>> Um everything else can get a little bit
abstract past that point. But
>> it is interesting the point about brand
and perception because I do feel like a
lot of brands like glance and look at
the thumbnails,
>> the channel header and maybe watch the
intro. Y
>> and so creators don't realize like that
doesn't just help the retention, it
helps their bottom line in some ways
>> big time
>> because these sponsors are are looking
at that and they're just trying to show
their boss they're making a good
financial decision by giving you
sponsorship money. Yeah.
>> You know, and that is like their boss is
like not even glancing, they're
squinting,
>> you know, and just like taking a look at
So, it's interesting. I haven't heard
too many creators like talk about that
because it is a big perception play too,
>> big time. Uh, I didn't realize it until
like two years ago and I started getting
on calls with brands that we wanted to
partner with and they started saying
like, "We have qualms with this video
idea or like with these videos that
you've made."
>> And I'm like, "Did you watch the video?"
Because the content is so different from
what you think it is.
>> And they're like, "Uh uh uh, you know,
they haven't watched the videos."
>> But
>> your title and thumbnail, the brands are
watching. They're not watching your
videos. They don't care. Is your brand
representative of their values? Yes or
no? Yeah, that's how they decide. Yeah,
>> I guess. Yeah, the takeaway is like some
brands only read, they don't watch.
>> That's right.
>> Yeah, that's interesting. Um, what what
does the team look like now? Like
because you guys are putting out so much
like content like so quickly, highly
edited, highly produced, like like
what's the makeup of the Ara team now?
>> It's a lot smaller than it was. My
values have like shifted a lot to like a
small amount of great people, and that's
the goal. Um, there's
two people in creative, but there's a
lot of that spiderwebing that goes out
for finding new inspiration. Like,
there's little feelers out everywhere
looking for inspiration.
>> Um, editing takes up the most amount of
people, six people in person, two or
three overseas.
>> Production is like two or three people.
>> And how big was it before?
20 plus something like that. Maybe 25.
>> Wow.
>> Yeah. At like peak people.
>> And like obviously a big part of your
channel back then was was Mac and him
being an editor. What happened with you
and Mac?
>> Dude, Mac is a dog. Like
it's hard to overvalue what he is
capable of. Like you have to think that
guy was with me living in a bunk bed in
a basement editing videos in a garage
for years and he would edit the videos
for two days and then he would go out
and shoot and be my cameraman and talent
in the videos and then come back and
then edit the video in two days and we
did that for years. Um, it's like, dude,
he he's he's on a different planet of
work ethic, willingness to work.
One of the most he might be the most
creative person I know. I think it's
similar to when we talk about the person
that got me from zero to 100,000 or
100,000 to a million or a million to 10
million. The version of the team that
got me there won't be the same either.
And Mac and I are still very close. And
I think that we will be friends for a
long time, but
there's a time and a place for two
people and two collaborators to work
together on something like we don't have
to work together and be friends. We can
do one or the other. They're not uh
mutually exclusive, you know? And so,
yeah, Mac's gone on to do amazing
things. I'm so so so so so so proud of
him. Like, he deserves everything that
he's done and more. I'm so proud of
everything he's done. Um,
uh, and we've been through a lot of
stuff together. Like, we've been through
a ton. And, uh,
yeah, it makes me emotional to think
about him because he's done so much for
me. Like, I wouldn't be here without
him. Like, I would I would never ever
ever ever ever have gotten this far if
he didn't come in and help me. He and he
believed in me when I had nothing. I had
like 10,000 subscribers and Mac was
there living on my couch making videos
with me. And Mac is his own creative
powerhouse, you know. And I think him
and I have pretty different goals
and we'll probably we'll we will support
each other's goals forever. But there
was a cool blip in time when our goal
was the exact same thing. But I don't
think it has to stay like that. I don't
think it will stay like that. Um he's
got some cool stuff coming and I'm
really excited for it. Yeah.
>> Yeah. I I mean one of the moments that
made me emotional watching and I feel
like is just tattooed on my brain in
terms of like stuff I've seen
>> you and Mac crossing the 1 million
subscriber mark on your channel. Like
you guys I think staked out on an island
somewhere New Year's Eve just freaking
out together.
>> Um and and when I saw this like oh this
is the dynamic duo of YouTube. They're
they're going to be together forever.
>> Yeah. Um,
was there something looking back on it
you could have done to keep Mac around
or do you think it was inevitable that
you guys were going to go down separate
paths?
>> I don't think my goal was ever to keep
Mac. Like I think my goal was to for us
to work together for as long as it made
sense on the same project. And I think
it's so important to like love and be
friends with the people that you do
these things with because doing them
alone is lame and it's not fun. And uh
our friendship has gone through ups and
downs and there's so many things and
from my side, I'm not going to speak for
him, but on my side that I wish I would
have done differently over time. Um but
at the end of the day, there's a lot of
stuff that has happened that only him
and I will ever have the mutual human
experience of going through together.
And that will that bonds us forever. Uh
I think to answer your question, there's
a million things I could have done
differently or I wish I would have done,
but that's the same thing you have with
any good friend. You know, like uh
relationships aren't always perfect,
especially when you mix business,
especially when you mix one of the
fastest growing YouTube channels on
planet Earth. Uh
it's hard. It's really, really, really
hard to do YouTube with your friends,
especially when you're both on camera
together. Yeah, I asked that because I
think if you trace back anybody's
journey, like behind every crazy creator
is a super supportive partner, spouse,
an editor, like videographer, somebody
who grinds with them. Um, and I'm
wondering is is there things that if it
was not doing it forever, but like
things like you mentioned you could have
done differently to maybe like keep that
ride going a little bit longer or or or
keep good people around because I think
it's like YouTube gets emotional and and
and there's like decisions that, you
know, in hindsight I've made or things
I've said that was like, oh wow, that's
definitely in the heat of the moment and
um, you know, it would have been great
to keep working with that person. H I
think if I were giving advice to
creators out there for
um retaining great people, my advice
would be to show appreciation more than
you think you have to. If you're the
creator, you're the only person getting
praise. By the way, if you didn't
realize it, you get all the comments.
You get all the views. It's all attached
to your face.
They don't get any of the glory for all
the hard work that they put into making
your thing. So, you're the most
important person to appreciate them.
>> Um,
>> what forms does that appreciation take?
Like that there's like is it more on
camera time so people know them and all
the hard work they put in? Is it money
and like helping compensate? Like what
what what do you feel like are some of
those things that
>> Everybody's different. Everybody has
different values. I think if you can
understand the person really well and
what they value the most, uh I think you
can that will help you do a much better
job. So, if you don't know what your
team values, I would figure it out
quickly
>> and what that individual
>> exactly what each person values and how
to do a great job for them.
>> If you don't think that that's your job
as a YouTuber, you already lost. That is
your job. It is your job as the leader
of the channel.
>> Um, I think as much as you can
incentivize the team as possible,
reasonably, this is also your job. I
think there's a lot of stuff that I
overlooked where I had huge upside from
their work but didn't necessarily
include them in all of the upside. And I
think it's important to include really
great people in the upside of the
channel.
>> There's all kinds of ways to do that.
Whether that's money, whether that's
experiences, whether that's time off,
there's all kinds of
equity. There's all kinds of important
ways to incentivize a team. Um, and if
you want to do it for the long run,
don't expect somebody to stay just for
money. It's just not the key. Uh, and I
would say for important people, you can
never underestimate the value of your
relationship with them. People usually
sign up for a YouTube channel because
they respect, love, appreciate the
person at the helm of it. And um it's
unrealistic to expect
somebody to continue to be excited about
the channel if there's an inverse
relationship to the amount of time where
you spend with them at the beginning to
the time you spend with them as the
channel grows. Um I think it's really
important
>> like inerson time with them.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Like personally spending
time with them. Yeah. Outside of the
videos, outside of the filming, outside
of the everything is really important.
Yeah.
>> I think it's much harder to do that when
you have a big team like you did before.
Exactly. It's super hard. And so
the leaner you can keep the team, the
more time you'll have to uh to spend
with people and the more money you'll
have to incentivize them
>> and the more experiences you can include
them on.
>> And uh I think that's your job as a
YouTuber. By the way, that wasn't the
job of a YouTuber 10 years ago. 10 years
ago, daily vlogging, you can do it by
yourself. You might be able to edit it
yourself. that's not this version of
YouTube. And I think I was confused on
that for a long time.
>> Yeah. What inspired you to start the
countdown series? Because you were
already like doing so much and now
here's a series where you're promising
30 videos in 30 days, 30 spectacles.
Like
>> why start that series and maybe give
some context about what it was for
people who may not remember.
>> Yeah. So we did it was basically a
series of videos. It was 30 videos in 30
days. Um,
yeah. And this is this is where it's
like there's no playbook to YouTube,
right? And I'm trying to find my
absolute
what am I capable of, you know? Uh, what
works, what doesn't, I don't know. And I
think well, so I had a vlog channel at
the time, which was also Eric and I
posted a vlog every single day for 30
days, which was so fun because at the
time I'm competing at Spectacle. I get
to post like one time a month. And then
my buddy Doha starts living with me and
he's like, "Dude, we should daily vlog
on an iPhone." And I'm like, "That
sounds fun because I got into this to
film videos." Like,
>> I feel like I I posted 13 videos that
year. And I'm like, "What if we made it
up and we posted 30 videos all at the
same time?" Uh, and we gave the audience
like the content that we dred them from
the for the entire year. And we had so
much fun vlogging. And the vlogging was
so successful, we were like, let's what
if we what if we added more production
value into these and actually thought
about it. Like I wasn't even thinking
about the vlogs. And so, um, yeah, I
think we just adopted vlog but bigger
and can we attach a bigger goal to it?
Um, can we make this more exciting for
the platform? And I think I remember
specifically going into that and I was
just thinking about uploading 13 videos
that year and I'm like there's no way
like if we're going to do YouTube, we're
going to try this hard. I want to at
least give myself a chance at being like
creator of the year. Like, is there a
chance that what I'm doing this year
could get me into a position to be
creator of the year? If no, I'm never
going to find out what I'm capable of.
And so, it comes from a little bit of
success over here, a big question over
here. I want to find out what my
absolute abilities are. And so, yeah,
you know, we um we basically start
producing 30 videos for 30 separate
days. and we start the series going live
when I'm halfway done. So, I'm halfway
done filming the first half of the
videos. We proceed filming the series as
like I'm uploading on my phone at 8:00
in the morning and then I'm stepping on
to the next video I'm shooting. And so,
we gave ourselves like a 15 day buffer.
Maybe it was more than that. Uh for some
of the videos, they were shot further
out. Um Yeah. And we freaking ripped
videos every single day for 30 days.
>> Yeah. when you were uploading. I mean,
doing 30 videos in 30 days is hard
enough. Doing 30 spectacles in 30 days
is even harder.
>> Managing like the emotional toll that
comes with the videos that were made
about you.
>> And to give context to folks about the
response and the criticism about your
countdown series, you know, you said in
your launch video that you'd be doing 30
videos in 30 days and then a lot of
folks claimed that 13 episodes of the
series were filmed in advance. Uh you
said you would go around the world, but
seven of the videos or so were in LA
where you lived. Um and a lot of the
things may have been faked or fabricated
uh allegedly. Did you think that going
into it people would find this out? Cuz
like some of these creators did a ton of
sleuththing looking at like your date on
the watch and realizing that wait that
was filmed in September when the series
came out in December. Um or was it you
just trying to keep the content hamster
wheel going at all costs? Yeah, like I
completely I'm so empathetic of like
Yeah, duh. Like you have to be more
clear like I need to there needs to be a
sentence there of like hey guys I have a
head start. I film these as a head. I
wasn't I'm not you know I'm I'm see my
watch on my arm. I'm not like trying to
hide it. Uh
>> I Yeah, I think I just thought that I
could film it chronologically with a
head start and the audience would be
okay with that.
>> Yeah. But I think when you get so deep
in the sauce, you know what I mean? And
you're trying to do something that's
never really been done before,
uh, you're set up to make mistakes, you
know? And, uh, the thing about YouTube
is that, like I said, there is no
playbook to the platform. And if you're
trying to stretch the absolute limits,
you're going to mess up. And I'm only
appreciative on those videos for giving
me feedback. Like I a lot of these guys
that made videos about me, I don't think
they would know as much as they knew
about me if they weren't fans of the
channel currently or at some point. And
so I think the perspective is like these
are people who care about the brand and
they're like giving you real feedback.
And I think you can either be in denial
about the feedback or you can take the
feedback and make better videos. And um
>> yeah, that's my goal. I just want to
make better videos.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. It's funny because I remember
making the series and it's the hardest
I've ever worked in my life. That's the
hard part for me is it's I me and my
friends and my employees have never
worked harder ever on anything I've ever
made. And it being received negatively
was hard. Like that was something that
was tough for me. But at the end of the
day, I say this all the time to
everybody that I work with, the
audience. We make the videos for the
audience. You make every decision you
make about making anything with the
audience in mind. And I think I'm I was
completely off track with like not
making something the audience wanted.
I'm making something I'm selfishly
passionate about and I'm structuring it
in an abstract way. Um, which is so it's
just the antithesis of everything I know
and everything I'm passionate about
about YouTube. But I think this is a
version of me who was stuck making
spectacle videos once a month and I just
want to make stuff and I don't have
great counsel around me and I'm just
doing what I know best to be the next
move, you know?
>> Yeah. And I I think it's hard to
empathize with that. Like I I I won't
even pretend to understand what it's
like uploading that level of videos for
30 days, but you know, I had this 45day
shoot with Jimmy, you know, filming this
docu series for Beast Games. You and I
spent probably,
>> can I say we you were on set? Like we
but you were there for like a week, two
weeks. You were filming a series of
videos coming in and out. And I will say
it is very exhausting going from film
mode to manager mode or respond mode.
And so like that that gave me just a
little bit more like understanding of
what that's like. Um,
>> I'm also wondering like do you feel like
that some of the backlash was harder
because you were kind of the guy who
said you don't fake stuff because if if
we're being like
>> fair like Hollywood YouTube like things
get
>> filmed in advance all the time. Yeah.
>> Like that that's just like part of the
industry or things can get fabricated in
the edit. Like do you feel like there's
a subtext here of like Eric is the guy
who doesn't fake stuff and that's why um
things kind of
>> fell down harder.
>> Yeah,
I think it's half me having a huge
enormous borderline indestructible ego
at the time.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh I felt like I could do anything. I
had I had only ever taken big risks and
been rewarded for them,
>> right?
>> What am I what what what's the worst
thing that could happen? Like I'm gonna
go film this thing and I can do anything
creatively I want to do and what's going
to happen? You know what I mean? Like if
you put yourself in my shoes,
you're this kid who lives in Georgia who
loves and loves YouTube so much and
you're such a big fan of everybody. And
within the span of 24 to 36 months, you
become best friends with all the biggest
YouTubers in the world who you once
looked up to. You've only grown, you
broke every record in growth.
Every idea you ever have works, you know
what I mean? Where does your head go?
like your ego is just so big. And I
think the way I talked about the brand
and like the way I'm like calling people
out and I'm like
saying these things, it's like I look
back and I'm like even if I'm right
about everything that I'm saying,
there's no reason to
have an ego about it. You know what I
mean? Like there's no version of me that
is successful that is better because I
have an ego, you know? And uh we call it
the humble era now. like me and my boys
call it the humble era and it's like
Arax in his humble era and it's
genuinely you know either the world will
humb humble you or you'll humble
yourself and uh like I said the feedback
I've gotten from that like I guess a
year or two ago now was only helpful for
me to become a better version of myself
outside of YouTube and everything like
that a better uh manager
>> for the people around me um and a better
YouTuber it's only helpful and I'm so
appreciative and I've been shaped and
like molded, you know what I mean? And
like, you know, when you meet people,
you know the difference between somebody
who's never gone through anything hard
and somebody who's been through some
[__]
>> and I think that experience, I look back
and I'm just grateful that the fans are
still here and the fans gave me as harsh
a feedback as they did. And uh I'm only
grateful. I look back with it with
extreme gratitude because if I just kept
going the way that I was going with such
a huge ego and a belief that I could do
anything and it would work, um I think
it would have been a lot worse.
>> You know what I mean? Uh it's it's a
necessary part of the process. And it's
almost like again I thought me and my
boys go coming up on YouTube thought
that our job was to tell the best
stories on YouTube. But if you pull that
thread too far, you end up on some
really slippery territory, you know? Uh
yeah, it's it's it's just cringe. It's
like it makes me cringe because of it's
like there's no reason to have that ego,
you know? It's and yeah, it's just
tough. So much of the transformation
between that Eric and this Eric has
happened off camera. So, it's like weird
to
talk about it, but it's Yeah, it's just
it's a that's a different human being,
you know?
>> Yeah.
>> That is the version of me that got the
channel to 10 million subscribers. That
is the version of me that did it. You
need a psychotic
confidence that the impossible can
happen. There's no way that what
happened to me in my life getting to 10
million happens without that version of
me. But the version of me that gets the
channel to 100 million in a way that I'm
proud of is a very different version of
Eric. And that is what I have been
working on for since that all went down.
Yeah.
>> Yeah. I mean, there's so much crap you
have to go through to, you know, build a
channel that, uh, you have to have that
like delusional optimism.
>> I want to just spend another second like
talking about like that era of just for
like that moment. I I felt like there
was this chase to catch up to Mr. Beast,
like everyone's labeling you as like the
next Jimmy. And I'm wondering like did
you feel like you leaned into that too
much? Cuz this video that like I saw
like I trapped 24 Tik Tockers in a box.
I think you renamed it to I trapped
celebrities in a box. You were playing a
host. There was contestants. There was
challenges. Do you feel like that was an
ARAC video now looking back on it or was
that you chasing Mr. Beast?
>> It's an interesting mix like going back
into my head of where I was at. I
definitely think like I call it
calculated gambling when you roll out
like a new video or a new series that
could have follow-ups. And for that one
specifically, like at the time I don't
think Jim was making any of those
videos, but I think for me it's like how
dynamic can the channel be? Like what
are my absolute limits of making videos?
Like
what's the point at which people stop
watching the videos and like I want to I
want to find my absolute boundaries and
and for me it's like those videos the
motivation is more of uh testing my
artistic abilities and testing my
abilities to make what videos. Um, I
think Jimmy actually made that video
later with YouTubers, like the exact
same video with the exact same title
with YouTubers. So, I think in that
video, I'm definitely chasing the trend
of spectacle.
>> At the time, that's what YouTube was. I
think everybody's just chasing
spectacle. But, you know, I think those
videos are fun. Like, we were the first
people to ever bring people into a house
like that and tell a cohesive story with
15 terabytes of footage. And like, that
video took a month with 15 editors to
make that. It's just so huge and like
had never been done before. I remember
finishing it and we all looked at each
other and we were like, "Bro, we just
made something no one's ever seen
before." And then we looked at the
amount of footage and we realized that
we were done for. And then we never made
that series again because it was so
painful to make the video. Uh yeah, but
I think I think there was a moment in
YouTube where it was like encouraged to
incinerate money and I was not afraid to
do it. Like I've said a million times
like I'll I will succeed at YouTube or
die trying. And like, so if
>> if I have to at least find out if that's
the correct thesis or not, I'm going to
try.
>> Yeah.
>> How much did that video cost? Do you
remember
>> the uh Strangers Trapped in a Box
videos?
>> Bro, I got to a time when I was spending
so much money on videos. It was so
stupid. I think I spent probably 60K on
that video each.
>> Wow.
>> Yeah. Uh, so it was probably 120
between. No, it was more. I mean, it's
in the six figures. Every one of those
videos is in the six figures total.
Yeah.
>> Wow.
>> With staff cost and everything. Like
there's the video budget and then
there's all the cost that goes on top of
the people that make the video. You know
this.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> It's easily over six figures for every
single one of those videos.
>> Wow.
>> Yeah.
>> And at that point, are you like thinking
about like the money or just like let's
get to the next upload? Like
>> I'm No, I'm not thinking about it
because I'm optimizing for a singular
goal, which is how fast can I get to 10
million subscribers. I'm not trying to
build a sustainable machine. I'm trying
to get to 10 million subscribers. This
is my singular goal in life. I wake up
every day. How do I get to 10 million
subscribers? That's the only thing I'm
trying to solve for. If I make money,
great. If I lose money, great. I'm
trying to get 10 million subscribers.
I'll do whatever it takes to get there.
Like, that's where my head was at at the
time. Yeah.
>> Um, take me into the humble era. Like,
now, um, after the countdown, and also
like it took a while for your channel to
get back to where it was, like how are
you thinking about that rebuilding
phase, um, to make the comeback that you
have? I think the slowdown of videos
wasn't even it's not because of any like
controversy or negativity. It's like
genuinely I'm trying to take this
feedback in understand it from a
fundamental level and then build around
it is is the goal, you know,
>> and I had to change from that version of
me to this version of me. Like there's
so much that has to happen off camera to
become the version that I'm proud of
that the fans like that they that we're
all on the same page about, you know.
Um,
and that took a lot like that took
everything. And it's like behind the
scenes is me doing a ton of work on
myself, me doing a ton of work on the
air machine. And I think fundamentally
deciding what the brand is like what is
the brand? What is the brand? Like if
this isn't the brand, if I'm this far
off from what I've uh created
expectation around,
I need to get back on to like what's the
expectation and set it clearly, you
know? And so,
>> yeah, there was there's that this is a
this is a metric ton of work that just
goes in behind the scenes that'll never
see the light of day. It's just me in a
room by myself or with my friends
solving problems and Yeah. I don't know.
I could go into anything, but it's Yeah.
>> Yeah. What What were some of those
problems? What did that Arak machine
look like in terms of overhauling it?
Like did the team change like like take
us behind the scenes.
>> Yeah, there's a there's a few core
things I would say. Number one is if
you're making decisions in the headsp
space of I'm trying to get to 10 million
subscribers as fast as possible, you
have this mindset of I'm going to hire
people or bring on like team to help me
get there. And this is my goal
regardless of how of of help or
whatever. And I think that whole thought
process was so flawed and so
shortsighted because the correct answer
actually is I will only grow this
channel as fast as I can find great
people to help me get there. That's the
right way to think about it. And I if
you would have told me that then I would
have told you I would have said horrible
things to you. No, I'm just kid. I would
I would have I would have said I would
have said you're thinking too slow. I'm
going to go move on. And yeah, I I would
have never bought into that theology,
but it's played out in my life so many
times now. So
>> wait, help me understand the difference
because to get to 10 million subscri I
know it's a vanity metric now on
YouTube, but it's still growing the
channel like
>> simpler. To make it simpler,
>> there's two ways to look at the channel
or at a business or anything, which is
like
>> you set a goal and you just hire people
to get there
>> or you flip the whole thing on its head
and it's
I will set the goal based on my ability
to build a great team. The the team
decides like you can't you're setting
uncontrollable goals or short-sighted
goals. Yeah, you yeah, I can get to 10
million, but what happens after that? we
can force our way to 10 million, but I
built the wrong company to get there.
Like I built the wrong YouTube channel
getting to 10 million. That was what the
feedback was. You know, it's like
>> we have to flip the whole thing on its
head. And like I think a channel is a
it's not me. It's a conglomeration of
great people.
>> And so I the thing between me and where
I want to go on on YouTube is building
the right team of people to help me get
there. And that's really hard. That's uh
that's building a recruiting business.
That's uh learning about what makes a
good person. That's what learning about
like company culture. This is there's
this is all things that I would have
said were it was a distraction for me
growing a YouTube channel, but they're
fundamentally important for me to get to
my goals.
>> And to put this in context, how old are
you now, Eric?
>> 28.
>> Mhm.
>> Um to hear you talk about all these
things in the context of YouTube, which
most YouTubers like don't even think
about. Um, I think it's refreshing. And
I'm also wondering, was it around the
same time that you did the world's
biggest pizza party? Yeah. Yeah. I was
there. I just remember that that that
was still in that spectacle. Let's do
the world's biggest the world's largest,
the world's f. So So take me through
like cuz if the countdown was this
moment of realization,
what was the world's largest pizza
party? Cuz that seemed like another
version of like pushing the spectacle.
Like I I I remember being at your
world's largest pizza party and just
>> I was like, how are they working this
hard? Yeah.
>> You know, and it's like I'm looking at
the pizza, I'm looking at my watch, it's
like 2 a.m. I think you guys are still
going like putting sauce on things like
>> um like what how did that moment fit
into you know your journey in different
like I think that was like one that's
like one of the coolest things of all
time. Uh but at what cost? Like I don't
think many people were having fun doing
that. I don't know how we did it.
Looking back, I don't know how we did
that. I don't I genuinely don't know how
we did it. Uh the team at Pizza Hut was
great, but you like at that time I
remember we were doing weekly videos. We
were planning for the Streamies and and
creatively directing that for me to host
and hosting. Yeah.
>> And we're prepping for the world's
largest pizza party, which is not just
making the world's largest pizza, but
it's also multiple pizza parties for the
fans in different parts of the country
all the exact same time. Um I think I
had a lot of great people. Like I can't
do it by myself. I have a lot of great
people and there's a lot of different
decisions I would have made with those
people at the time. I probably wouldn't
have said yes to all of that stuff, but
when you're in a position of growth on
the platform, a million shiny objects
get thrown at you. And when YouTube is
all you've ever dreamed of doing, you
say yes to all of them. And again, if
your mindset isn't in I can only do so
as many projects as I find great people
to help me do them. If your mindset is
I'm going to say yes to the projects and
figure the rest out later, you're
already done for. And so yeah, we did I
you know the pizza party stuff, the
world's largest pizza. This is all stuff
like I'll never forget it. Amazing. Like
thank you to all the fans who came out
of that and supported it. It was
beautiful. Um but that was like the
first thing where it's sort of I think I
started learning a lot about what it
means to build a team. Yeah.
>> And that's so interesting to hear you
talk about because that mindset is what
is required to even get to 100,000
subscribers or a million. remember your
like famous couch series way back in the
day? Like you had to put $17,500
to buy Logan Paul's couches
>> to go back to like surprise and visit
him and make content out of that. And
that's you saying yes to something and
then figuring it out.
>> But it sounds like it takes on a
different meaning when you say yes to
too many things and you're big and you
have a lot of people working for you, a
lot of expectations from the fans. The
difference is I'm signing myself for
something versus me signing a team of
people up for something. And I can sign
myself up for something because it
benefits me and my face is on the
channel. And I am a dog and I will do
whatever it takes to succeed at the
thing. But that doesn't mean that you
should sign a bunch of other people up
to do the same thing with you. like you
find great people that can help you do
these things, but inevitably signing
them up for something that you didn't do
the work to prepare for as a leader,
what's going to h like we already know,
we already know what happens at the end
of this, you know what I mean? And so
that's what I was doing at the time. And
uh yeah, there's just a lot a lot to
learn from it.
>> Yeah. I mean, you you've also taught me
a lot. I remember when we were um like
filming at at Beast Games like and I saw
your editors there.
>> I'm like, Eric, wait, you brought your
editors here? Yeah. Like it's you're
talking about how it's an experience for
them. So that that's a win. But then you
know it's a win for the business because
they're getting context what they're
about to edit
>> and that actually fundamentally changed
like how we now run our team where I
want my guys who are going to be editing
>> shooting and seeing this or there's a
big experience like I want them coming
out for that as well.
>> That's awesome.
>> Um are there other little things you've
learned? I mean, I I'll share another
one that that also fundamentally changed
how we edit because something you said
like um I remember on these like big
shoot days where you know we're doing
behind the scenes for Jimmy and Beast
Games. We're following like three people
like five to six camera operators. Just
a crazy day. I was asking you for advice
cuz you know you go through these
experiences
so many cameras like so many people like
hours of footage and you told me this
thing I'll never forget. Um, you're
like, "Every night after you end your
shoot, record a voice note, just stream
of consciousness and then go to Claude,
which is this a AI app."
>> Yeah.
>> And you literally gave me this prompt
like verbatim, like you texted it to me.
Maybe I could put it on screen for
anybody else to use if you're
comfortable with that. Um, and that
prompt takes your voice note or
transcription of it, which is easy to
get, and outputs is basically take my
voice note and turn it into a scene by
scene breakdown for my editor to edit my
video.
>> Yeah.
>> And I did that every night of Yes. Yeah.
We use that as like a paper edit. Um,
just about every night. I mean, there's
some nights I was just blureyed, but uh,
just using that helped guide our
post-prouction process. Yep.
>> Any other little tricks like that or
things you've learned like giving people
experiences like helping with the post?
I mean, they're just like little thing
that keep like
>> Yeah, there's so many little things like
something that uh changed. Another big
thing that we did to change the post
room was uh I gave all the editors mics.
Like a lot of editors I think use like
AI voiceovers, which I don't think is
representative of tone. So when I'm
doing voiceovers, like I'll write
voiceovers, but I'll usually start it
off of inspiration from the editor. And
so every editor at the studio has their
own mic. They have their own camera on
their desk. So like they're their own
YouTuber. And so they actually rip
>> like their editing desk.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like it's an editing
desk and they have a camera at the top
of the desk and they have a mic just
like this at the desk like a nice mic.
And as they're editing the footage,
they're actually you'll go into the room
and you'll hear them doing voiceovers as
they're editing their sections
>> to mimic your ultimate voiceover.
>> Yeah. They don't they're not they're not
mimicking my voice over. They're just
they're doing storytelling. They're just
me. If I was editing my own videos,
which is like if I was editing my own
videos, I'd be laying in voiceovers as
I'm making the video to like help
context and like help communicate ideas.
So, they're basically doing fill in. I
mean, sometimes I'll take inspiration
from their voiceovers. Sometimes it's
just building space to where like, oh,
there should be a voice over here to
explain this. They'll do their best at
it,
>> but that is a huge deal. It it skips
like three rounds of revisions because
they're telling the story as they're
editing it. You know what I mean?
>> Yeah.
>> Uh so like buying six mics was like one
of the best investments. Buying six
cameras, like one of the best
investments.
>> Um if they they they also, you know, use
those cameras to do like Loom recordings
of their timelines for like overseas
editors. They're helping tell them like
what's going on in the timeline and like
there's so much that got lost in
translation for a long time. We're
communicating from one of my guys to an
overseas person. They're like typing it
up. Um so we ended up they just screen
record what they're doing and they can
the editor can see them. I talk with my
hands a lot and so I would have to sit
in the room with editors and like
>> shape things out with my hands and I was
like you guys should do the same thing
because I think it actually does help a
lot. Like
>> that's what humans are for. You know
what I mean? So they get on video and
actually make videos for overseas team
and the revisions from overnight became
like 10 times better immediately just
because communication was so much more
clear. Dude, I think and I think there's
so many of those little bottlenecks in
making videos and like my goal is always
like hyperfixating on them. I'm like how
do we eliminate those because the videos
just come out so much more natural when
there's not robotic systems and problems
in the way you know blocking videos.
>> Yeah. cuz ultimately you you are doing a
like straight to camera delivery like or
voiceover. So they're almost like trying
to put themselves in your shoes or give
you something to react to. Um which I I
think is like the way like you know
people have standins in Hollywood. Uh
people have like temp voiceovers like
these are the way that videos get made
at a high bar and a high pace
>> consistently.
>> Consistently.
I've just never heard it applied um in
the way that you just described. It's
fascinating.
>> Yeah. maybe to to uh talk more about the
business side of of ARAC. Um you've
launched a lot of businesses over the
years or been part of them.
>> Yeah.
>> Um h how do you think about like the
business of ARACK and and what does that
pie chart look like right now? Like
rough percentages of AdSense,
sponsorships,
>> products. I know you just launched
another like business called Clip Farm.
Yeah. Curious to hear about that. But
but the latest stakes, what what does
that pie chart of Eric look like today
in terms of income?
>> Yeah, the pie chart is different now
than it was then and it'll probably be
different again in 6 months. Right now
I'm sickeningly focused on making weekly
YouTube videos.
>> And so I'm not taking my foot off the
gas of making weekly YouTube videos
until I finish it. Um I'm kind of banned
from shiny objects for right now until I
can figure out how to do a great job at
this
>> because I've done it before but I didn't
have a system. So right now specifically
uh almost every like I would say like my
ad rev is like 50% my brand deals are
50% and that's it because that's the
core competency of the business. Yeah.
>> Uh ad rev meaning like YouTube ad rev
Facebook cut downs on different stuff
>> across all digital but it's mostly ad
rev. I think that chart changes
>> once I'm through this phase but yeah
it's a constantly adapting. I used to
try to compete at how many different
things could I break it down into, but
I'm in my humble era and I'm sticking to
the simple basics. You know what I mean?
I just learned about so many YouTubers
whose entire business was just on ad
revenue. Like huge unimaginable
businesses just off of ad revenue and
I'm like, "Okay, I just need to make ad
revenue great and then I can go work on
something else."
>> Yeah.
>> Um you
>> It's kind of boring, honestly. But
that's Yeah.
>> You had a video where you talked about
your ad revenue publicly. Okay,
>> this this sent shock waves throughout
YouTube. Like, really? Yes. Yeah.
>> Let me watch this. This dude is nuts at
pulling up clips. By the way, he did
this on my first interview. I could not
believe the lore he found.
>> This this clip thing is underrated.
Like, you just hand it to me and you're
like, "Oh, yeah. Watch this clip." It's
like some deep lore he digs up. When you
do this, it's so it's impressive. I
don't know anybody else who does this.
>> What's the most you've generated in a
month from your YouTube channel?
>> Oh, man. It's so funny watching it back
cuz now my goals are like the antithesis
of every goal I had at this time. Like
I'm like how little can I spend and how
little can I flex?
>> It's like I'm like this is like the ego
version of me trying to like say how
much money I spent and I'm like looking
back like you [__] idiot. It's so
stupid. Like you don't you you don't
understand how dumb you are. Do I want
to tell them? Tell me what's going on.
This is smart.
>> I think my best month
>> I think my best month was probably like
480K off of AdSense.
>> Wow. Just two years ago, you made your
first seven cents.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> And now you're doing multiple successes.
>> Yeah. Okay.
>> Um
>> it's a lot of money.
>> It's a lot of money. Have you had better
months of AdSense since then?
>> What are you trying to do to me, man?
What are you trying to get? what uh yeah
no I have I have
>> it's I mean people don't realize that a
lot of that money goes towards the team
and
>> cost definitely
>> and there's a lot there um
>> but here's the thing you probably know
you've seen some crazy backends
>> I've seen some crazy backend since that
clip
>> there's people doing a lot better than
you and me
>> it's it's wild
>> we're like little tiny minnows there's
giant whales out there with unimaginable
YouTube studios it's unreal
>> yeah their metrics are crazy. I I'm
wondering are there other ways that
you're like trying to like grow the
business? Like
>> and I'm also noticing you started a
second channel recently like also Ara,
>> the new business you announced, Clip
Farm.
>> Um like how do you think about making
those bets maybe versus Pizzy? Because
there's not as much
>> that you've talked about with Pizza.
Have you shut down pizza like or I mean
I mean what Yeah. It's like because that
seemed to come during the surge of like
creators doing consumer products.
>> Yes. Yeah.
>> And that was a moment. Mhm.
>> I'm just curious like beyond the
AdSense, beyond the sponsorships, like
>> Yeah.
>> How do you decide what to do and what
happened to Pizza?
>> Dude's really invested in pizza. No, I
think that people I think that people
want to hear. Uh I was in the habit of
starting new things constantly
and I have tried to go away from that
habit as much as possible. I talked to a
really uh a really successful uh mentor
of mine who
talked to me about this idea of sawdust
businesses which the idea is basically
don't go start something completely new
that you know nothing about. start
something that you can uh monetize
without any additional meaningful impact
on staff or input which I thought was a
great framework of choosing
opportunities. So a bad example of me
doing this would be me starting House
Party where I literally have to build a
brand new production company to export
videos and like
>> Oh yeah. What was House Party like? So,
House Party was a white psych wall
channel that I had where I basically did
different social experiments in the back
of my studio. It's a really cool setup.
Like, I have a one-way glass where we
can see in and react from a desk and
then there's action happening out on
this giant white psych wall that I
built.
>> Oh, similar to like Jubilee or the cut.
>> Exactly. So, it's like a cut video
happening in front of you.
>> Yeah.
>> But I'm behind a white psych wall and
they can't hear anything I'm saying.
>> Got it.
>> And so, me and my friends can react as
loud as we want or like talking to a mic
to talk to them. But, it's a it's a
really cool format. Somebody should do
it well, but it's not me because that's
not a that's not a sawdust business.
>> What do you mean by sawdust? Like that
is just like kind of a woodworker.
>> Yeah. A sawdust business means if I'm a
wood woodworker or I'm a lumber guy,
right? I make lumber all day long. I cut
lumber all day long. I ship out lumber
all day long. On the floor is sawdust.
Some guy came along one day and said,
"What can we do with all this sawdust?
We throw tons of it away literally every
single day." They created plywood.
Wow. They just took the sawdust. They
took all the leftover stuff and they
just, you know, used the tools they
already had. They were already forming
wood and cutting wood and they just
created a brand new product with glue
called plywood. And so this company just
opened up an entire like they basically
increased their revenue substantially by
creating plywood which is a brand new
thing that they had no additional cost
for. It was all upside. Does that make
sense?
>> Yeah. Oh 100%. So, I think in creator
world, I'm trying to think of my
business. It's so hard already to be a
YouTuber. I don't want to add more
distractions. I don't want to like do
the loudest, most uh most amount of
effort for least amount of outcome like
I've done in the past. The goal is how
do we find more sawdust businesses? Um,
examples of this are like clip farm
where um, you know, clipping is already
a huge business model. I have I'm
specifically positioned to find to
attract great clippers and bring
creators in who need clipping.
>> This is no additional work for me and
then I can hire an awesome operator
named Nate uh and Ryan who can run that
business separately from me and I'll
take a smaller piece of a bigger pie.
>> Awesome.
>> What what you what are you doing right
now? Like what's the you're already
hiring people to clip your stuff and
then you're like what take me through
the existing
>> Yeah. So create like my friends creators
myself other creators.
>> Yeah.
>> Pay clippers. Yeah. that you have a huge
trend.
>> Yeah. They spend thousands. I know
people spending
>> seven figures a month on clipping.
>> I'm already best friends with these
creators.
>> And I have a giant
>> funnel, my YouTube channel, videos I
already make where I can bring in the
most amount of clippers. I have the most
leverage for clippers are really just
editors and aspiring creators who want
to make content and make money doing it
>> who are great at editing short form
content and in many cases have their own
like um Instagrams or Tik Toks where
they could distribute them.
>> That's right.
>> Yeah. And most people don't know, just
to give context, like these people are
paid tens of thousands of dollars per
month to clip people's content.
Sometimes they use like AI tools like
Opus Clipper or sometimes they clip on
their own. And now like even like big
studios, they're hiring them to clip
their shows. That's right. And put like
it's a huge trend.
>> Beast Games, uh,
>> American,
>> all American big shows along with big
creators hire people who have the
ability to make clips of the show to
post those clips on TikTok because
that's distribution now.
>> Streamers hire clippers. That's right.
Exactly. To post their streaming clips.
It's a huge business. Huge business.
>> Um,
>> so the thought there was,
>> I'm already making videos about
streaming. I'm like the only YouTuber
really making videos about streaming,
right? Which is the biggest pool of uh
>> people hiring clippers.
>> People hiring clippers. I'm already
collaborating with them. And the
audience watching is probably pretty
likely to be a clipper or have interest
in becoming a clipper.
>> Yeah. And so I can bring those people in
whether they know how to clip or not.
Teach them how to clip by getting a
great operator and pair them up with my
friends who actually need clipping done
>> with no additional effort from me. All I
do is send some text and connect people
on the back and I have high leverage to
pull this off. That's a sawdust
business.
>> So the sawdust in that case are your
existing relationships.
>> Yeah. The sawdust in that case are my
existing relationships and my reputation
on YouTube. Aspiring creators um like
the channel so I can help those aspiring
creators make money by clipping. Yeah.
But it's interesting. Why is House Party
not Sawdust? Because it's like to me
it's like you are doing that. You're one
of the best at it on the platform in
terms of making that type of content.
It's just kind of a slight tweak of
having a cast.
>> You would think. You would think.
>> Um yeah, maybe like break that because I
I do think a lot of creators will be
like, "Oh, let me make more content or
let me launch a product." Um but you did
that, but it's interesting to hear that
the
>> So, I'll give you the wrong way to do it
and the right way to do it. Yeah.
>> So, House Party is the wrong way for me
to do it currently at my stage. Yeah.
It's a cool idea, but in order to do it,
I have to hire brand new editors because
I already have my main channel video
going out, right? I can't use my current
team. Yeah. I have to hire brand new
editors. I have to hire a
>> guy to run the channel who's not me. I'm
the creative
>> nucleus of my channel.
>> I'm making a brand new channel that
takes new ideas. I have to make new
ideas. So now I have to hire and find
impossible a new creative nucleus,
right? I have to hire editors around
them. I have to hire producers around
them. I have to hire them, staff on day.
I have to hire filmers.
>> We have to get new people in. and we
have to shoot on different days, right?
Yeah.
>> This becomes an entirely new production
company.
>> That's not a sawdust business. That's a
brand new venture,
>> which is cool if you have space and time
to do that.
>> Sawdust business is um an example would
be this new channel that I just launched
called Also Airact.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> For example, we just posted three videos
on there. One of them is um my walking
on water video, which is like the most
popular video on the channel. And these
are extended cuts like behind the scenes
like almost like a director commentary
channel.
>> So these videos we shoot 5 terabytes of
footage for and then they get turned
into 14-minute videos.
>> So for my core audience I'm basically
making a version of that video that's
extended with Dude, there's so many
funny moments I don't even remember
filming, but there's so many funny
awesome moments from those videos that
just didn't make the main cut because
I'm optimizing for how do I make a 50
million view video,
>> but they're not going to get me 3
million views. But and as we get closer
to a YouTube that favors TV,
>> uh an hourong cut of these videos
actually could be really great. And
there's all this content sitting on a
server doing absolutely nothing. So if I
can find somebody that I trust to do
topic selection on the channel and they
can get one editor, one editor can take
my timelines and go through and find the
additional content that I didn't include
in the first one
>> um separate. So, like I have a computer
uh at my studio where you just see the
mouse moving around all day long because
I have a uh one of my editors remoting
into that computer and editing old
videos off of my server all day long.
>> Wow.
>> And and so then those get exported as
brand new pieces of content. I film
brand new intros for them, but I can
film four intros for those in 30
minutes.
>> Like the time and effort ratio between
House Party and also Ara is
otherworldly. like the bar if we if we
took a bar graph and there was a bar
graph for the amount of effort necessary
for house party you wouldn't even see
anything for the amount of effort that
goes into also air but I can make the
same audience of people happy I can add
entertainment value I can add lore to
the channel with very little additional
cost
>> I think that's such an important
distinction because people may hear you
talk about sawdust business or like find
something that's like right next to what
you're already doing is like oh I'm
making content I should make more
content
>> but
>> what you're describing in terms of the
hiring.
>> Yeah.
>> And the process and and your time as a
bottleneck.
>> That's right.
>> Is a deciding factor.
>> Yeah.
>> I'm the ultimate bottleneck.
>> Uh so,
>> and then the cool thing about that is
it's like unexpected revenue. So, you
can do all kinds of fun stuff with that.
You can incentivize your current
employees better. You can hire new
people. You could get a new space. You
could spend a little bit more on your
videos. you could put it in the bank and
save it for a rainy day fund um with no
additional cost to the channel which is
pretty cool.
>> Yeah. These sound like much smarter bets
than the previous eras of Eric.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Oh yeah. So then we'll go
through the other ventures I guess.
Sure.
>> Uh what else do we have here? We have
Pizza.
>> Yeah.
>> I I've love Pizzify. I really do love
Pizzify. Pizza is still a company. Uh I
sold a piece of that company to our
manufacturing company. They're awesome.
>> And so they've basically run with Pizza.
We still sell Pizzafy. It still exists.
You can go buy it online. I know people
personally that love the sauce and still
buy it on Amazon. Um, so it still
exists. You know, we've been in talks
with Walmart of like putting it in the
stores and stuff. They're excited about
it. For me, it's just like that product
is funny. It was awesome. It was a
passion project. Again, I'm in a place
in my mind where I can take any risk
ever and it always works out for Eric
>> back then.
>> Back then, that's not me now. But, uh,
>> yeah. And and I had this idea of like
sauce and it's like this fun
it's just uh what I learned with that
product was that it was very hard. I
would get into meetings with buyers at
like a Target or a Walmart and I would
explain the pro product and how excited
I was and they would ask me where in the
store it would go and I was like oh
that's interesting.
>> Like when you're going into stores you
have to think about what product already
exists or you're innovating off of.
Jimmy just repackages and makes a brand
new chocolate bar, right? Prime makes a
brand new Gatorade. They have a place to
put these products.
>> If I'm making a sauce, it's not ketchup,
it's not mustard, it's not barbecue
sauce.
>> It's a sauce that makes anything taste
like pizza. You're asking Walmart
>> to open up a brand new space for a brand
new product they've never tested or
heard of before and put it on the shelf.
Trust me, it's just it's a hard it's a
it's a hard thing to convince them to
do,
>> you know. Um, so I have some
stuff coming up in the CPG space that'll
be really fun and exciting, but it's a
little bit better thought through. But
you can still buy Pizza Fi for the
people out there who love Pizza Fi. It's
still on Amazon, still being made. I
love that product. I eat it myself off
camera. It's it's a great product.
>> Yeah. It's so interesting to hear
because I think the tendency of so many
creators is like, I want to launch
something that's totally new in terms of
a product because that's kind of like
our DNA of like we just want to every
wheel artist. Yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Um, dude, just looking ahead. How
do you keep this going?
>> Like, like I'm think like, you know,
it's always interesting to hear like
each as they get more successful, you're
doing these buckets, you're doubling
down on things like
>> like where does this go as you get
older? You know, is is 40-year-old AX
sneaking through events still? Is is it
like you see a fiveyear horizon? Like
like do you think about what this could
look like once you have a family? Like,
yeah. What What's the future of this?
cuz it seems like you're figuring out
things in this era. I'm just wondering
how does it look? Are you building or
thinking about like that future?
>> Yeah, I think about it a lot and I think
it used to scare me like growing up on
YouTube because it's a young platform
which means everybody on the platform is
young. Yeah. Um, but I think the deeper
I get into it, the more exciting it
becomes because it's like we're the
first people to ever grow up in
Hollywood, you know, like nobody's ever
really done that, you know, and I think
we have an opportunity to recreate some
of the coolest careers in Hollywood on
YouTube. And so,
I'm here for the long game. I love
YouTube. It's my passion. I don't know
when it ends for me. It could be two
years. It could be 5 years, it could be
20 years. Um, but I'm really passionate
about
making things on the internet and I
think we're living in the reinvention of
entertainment and that it like that
fires me up to wake up to every day. You
know, I don't think I'm sneaking into
events at 40. Maybe I am. I could be.
The beauty about having a clarity around
your brand is you can sort of pivot in
any direction you want.
>> Uh, as long as it's on brand and the
fans like it. So, I think there's plenty
of cool formats that I can do when I'm
40. I think there's plenty of cool
formats I can do when I'm 90. You know
what I mean? Huh?
>> Any come to mind?
>> Rick,
>> I lived in a senior citizen center.
>> I haven't really thought about
90-year-old.
I'll put some I'll put some thought into
those.
>> We'll get some pitches out there.
>> Yeah, I'll hit you with that. And do you
think about let's say God willing one
day there's a little arch or a little
you know you have a son or daughter
they're asking about like
>> daddy I want to sneak into this event
but like do do you think about the
example or you just think about the con
I'm probably asking because I'm a new
dad but uh
>> or like other there's a lot of young
people watch your content too um and
it's mis mischievous it's playful it's
fun. Do do you think about that example
>> um that you're setting for either your
kids or other kids that are out there?
Yeah, I I've met a lot of these kids,
you know, and I think in the beginning
it was definitely a little bit more edgy
and maybe potentially a bad example. And
as I've gotten closer to having kids
myself, you really think about that and
you think about the footprint you have.
I think I have the coolest dad lore of
all time. Nobody's ever going to beat
me. It's just not going to happen. Um,
it's so I'm excited to get to show these
videos to my kids, you know? I'm not I'm
excited for them to get to see these
things that I did. Um I think the
content changes over time
and yeah, I think a lot now about the
viewer at home and
my editors would laugh if they were here
because there's stuff that they'll put
in the videos that I will take out now
that I wouldn't have before because I
just think it's important to set a good
example for the youth. I think it's one
of the coolest things that me or any of
any top creator on the platform gets to
do is TV doesn't exist anymore. We do.
And so that means we get to set the tone
for culture. And so you have a lot of
power. It's like uh great power comes
great responsibility. And we are
responsible for setting the tone of what
culture looks like. And I want to be I
want to look back and be proud of what I
did. And I think it's a value that has
come with time.
>> Well, dude, I I mean I appreciate you
just like talking about so much. I also
just more personal. I appreciate
everything you've done for me and my
channel, my family. I'm like, you
believed in me when I was just like
coming up and it it it just means a lot,
dude. I feel like every time I talk to
you, like you share something or words
of encouragement that, you know, this is
a tough business. It just fires me up
all over again,
>> dude. Of course, we're Dude, I I'm I'm
This set is nuts, by the way. This is a
nuts set. The first time I saw this guy
and did an interview with him, it was at
my house in my living room with like one
other guy and this guy was stressed out
of his mind. Look at you, bro. You're
cool, common collect. You got a whole
giant set here. You got a Look at this.
You got five people running this thing.
It's no joke. I'm proud of you, man. I'm
so proud of you.
>> There's a few people that, you know,
it's cool doing YouTube for like five
years now. There's a few people who stay
in the game and uh go at it as
passionately as I do. And you're one of
those people. And I'm like so grateful
to get to hang out with you out off
camera, on camera. It's it's fun and I'm
so proud of you, bro. You've done a
great job. I get I'm grateful to have
seen the growth of the whole thing. It's
it's awesome.
>> Thanks, man. You've been a big part of
it. Just so much. So, dude, I'll let the
bromance like we could go on for hours
here, but uh I'll give you the final
word if there's any other thoughts,
reflections, or things you want to say.
>> I don't have anything else, man. I'm
excited. I'm excited about the new wave
of ARA. We're going back to the basics,
the simple stuff, making great videos,
and that's what I'm most passionate
about. And
I'm freaking here to learn and here to
stay. I'm showing up every week on the
platform. This is this is I'm focused on
the basics. If you if you guys don't see
me doing anything shiny or distracting,
it's for a good reason. Trust me. That's
pretty much it.
I'm leaving. Play the outro music.